Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be testing our first function
and it is this divide function here, really simple function.
All it does is it takes two parameters,
dividend and divisor, and divides one by the other.
We're going to be doing a little bit more
in this function later on, but for now, it's just this.
I've also added the typing module here
to say that the dividend and the divisor
are both int or floats.
Let's go over to our test functions file
to begin writing our tests.
It is important that your file is called test_
and then, the name because that's what unittest
is going to look at in its default configuration.
You can change that later on,
but we're not going to look at how in this course.
The first thing to do here is to import the test case class
from unit test, and also, of course, our divide function.
Then, we're going to create a class test functions,
for example, and it's going to inherit from test case.
Inside here, we can write our first function.
Functions should also start with test_,
for example, test_divide_result.
This test is just going to check that the divide function
returns what we would expect a divine function to return
with two normal values.
So, we'll say that the dividend is going to be 15,
the divisor is going to be three,
And the expected result is going to be 5.0.
These are just variables.
They don't have any specific meaning in our tests.
Even though they have the same names
as the function parameters, it's totally irrelevant.
You can name these whatever you want.
What is important, though,
is that you do self.assertEqual(divide)
of the dividend and the divisor
and then, the expected_result.
So what we're doing here is we're passing to
this assertEqual method two values,
divide or the result of executing the divide function
and our expected_result.
And it's just gonna check that they are the same,
so that dividing 15 by three is equal to 5.0.
We have written our first test.
Now, if you're using the default configuration,
i.e. your file is called test_
and your tests are called test_ and then, the name,
you can right click test_functions
using PyCharm and run the tests.
If you are using the terminal,
we will have instructions on how to run these tests
on the terminal in a little info box.
So let's press run and then, you see that you get
ran one test in .002 seconds and it is okay.
No tests failed.
Whenever you're writing a test it's very important
that once you've written the test that you're happy with,
you play around with it to make sure
that it is actually working.
So now I'm gonna change the expected result of 4.0
and when I press play, this test should fail.
And it does, which is good
and it says here the expected result is 5.0.
At this point, let me say that, in some cases,
when you make a division in any programming language,
the result may not be exact, so it could be 5.00000001
just because of how the computers do division
and we have some links in the resources section
of this lecture to explain why that happens.
But if the division was not exact,
that is okay if you use a slightly different method.
So, instead of self.assertEqual,
whenever you're handling division, I always recommend
you do self.assertAlmostEqual.
And then, the last argument after divide
and expected_result is a delta,
which is what the allowed difference
between these two values is.
That is just in case there is a small inconsistency
in the division there, that this will still work.
So now that we've done this, let's press play again,
and the tests pass.
By the way, down here on the bottom left,
there is a small icon that says Toggle auto-test,
which is something you can click on PyCharm
and whenever you make a code change,
the tests will run automatically.
I usually leave it on when I'm writing tests
and I have my code, like an application.
For now, we're gonna leave it off,
but it is there If you want it.
It can be helpful.
Let's begin writing our second test,
which is for a different equivalence class.
We're gonna talk later on what equivalence classes
and boundaries are when you're talking about testing,
but essentially, you wanna start thinking about
what different types of values are
that your functions can take.
For example, this function in this test,
we've tried with two positive, non-zero numbers.
I would call this one equivalence class.
These two numbers are similar.
You could, instead of 15, tried 30.
Instead of three, you could type 10,
but you would expect the function to work in the same way
with 15 or 30 or 300.
However, it may work differently
if you put in a negative number.
And that is what I would call a different equivalence class,
a different type of input.
So we will write a test for negative division
and here we'll say that the dividend is 15,
the divisor is -3 and the expected result is -5.0.
And then, we will do exactly the same as before.
We will just test that.
Calling the divide function with these two arguments
will result in this or it will almost result in that.
Pressing play gives us an okay result once again.
Finally, we can try a third equivalence class,
which is for a zero number.
So, we will say test_divide_dividend is zero.
We will set the dividend to zero and the divisor to five
and then, the expected_result should be zero.
Whenever you divide zero by anything, it should be zero.
And now, we're going to say self.assertEqual
because I don't expect the output
to be zero point something,
so I don't wanna do self.assertAlmost Equal.
I wanna do self.assertEqual.
Pressing play again and there we have our three tests.
You can see that writing tests can be very straightforward
when your code is very straightforward.
Here, we've got a simple function that doesn't do a lot
and we still have to write three tests for it,
but they're all very simple tests.
In a simple test, which is a test that I like most,
you have your inputs and your outputs defining the test
and then, you have a single check
or a single assert at the end.
There is a benefit to doing tests in this way,
which is that it's really clear what the function does.
The function should be able to divide.
It should able to handle negative results
and they should be able to handle a dividend of zero
without giving you an error.
We will be adding more tests
and also other functions in the coming videos,
but try always to keep functions or classes,
if you're doing that, simple and your tests simple
and straightforward, as well.
Let's move on to the next video.
I'll see you there.